welcome back to test drive I'm here in
the Motor City Detroit with chrysler 300
srt8 with me as a guy that helped make
muscle cars and for that matter detroit
cool again SRT president Rob Jill are
you doing before we talk about this car
I want to talk about the Super Bowl end
now with the iconic now iconic tagline
imported from Detroit talk about what
Detroit means to Chrysler Chrysler it
means to Detroit well you know trace our
homeroom right we go down with him we go
up with them you know we kind of had a
link together I remember it when that
commercial came on friends from I a lot
of friends in the industry they all
called me so thank you for having making
that commercial because it was bigger
than the car it was about the city was
about the gumption is about survival a
comeback story and the fact that we are
capable of making quality products
everybody has a business sedan I call
this the all business city that's it
that's a good time i'm going to use that
like that um what is the 302 the line
it's a special car it's kind of one of
the halos for the Chrysler brand as well
I mean I think it you know the original
300 back the 55 300c they used to call
it the bankers muscle come you know it's
a really sophisticated vehicle that an
outsized engine really powerful fun to
drive and that's what this is all about
and this is the ability to have both
luxury and performance it's not that
hard to for us to conceive a car like a
300 when you live in a city like Detroit
I mean people you know just like I lay
in a way you know people are very proud
of their cars here they really respect
them it's an extension of their
personality and the 300 is one of those
cars that has the ability to be whatever
you want it to be it could be your
sports car to be your muscle car could
be your cruiser it could be your your
chrome machine your hip hop mobile I
mean it really kind of flexes with its
audience and to this day I think you
know just like in wearing this SRT it
can be a track car as well so it's this
car that has this ability to put on kind
of whatever suit the moment requires
it's amazing how one product can change
the trajectory of a company crisis
always had that history of being able to
take risk we had this wonderful
rear-drive architecture and we knew the
rear-drive proportions give you this
automatically premium look so why not go
all the way and take it all the way and
we kinda experimented with this really
tall beltline short window and I said
why not for production can't just be a
show car so we did it and it's really a
right it really has gotten people into
our brand that otherwise would never
have been that you you got an
interesting upgrade I heard a funny
story is it true that your aunt sent a a
letter to the chief of design or two
Iacocca Iacocca yeah she did um I used
to spend summers about sketching and she
notice esky you should do this for a
living and they lured us back Neil
walling actually answered it and it took
me almost eight years later but I
actually followed their advice and that
was when you were like in grade school
yeah I was above just about thirteen and
a half years old that's one reason i
joined quite like pets a few offers and
I said you know Chrysler it's been there
from the beginning or something here
must be a reason yeah funny hood stuff
works don't think about it but you know
talk about the interiors and what goes
into that we have die cast aluminum
details we have a leather-wrapped
instrum house which is available on some
of our vehicles we also have the stamped
aluminum cluster bezel which is both on
the base car in the SRT so there's a
great opportunities world class material
when you think of interior in a car
there's hundreds of hundreds of little
products inside one big product so it
takes a lot of effort to get it right
and talk about getting really precise
and detailed this little piece of fabric
here you know that it's actually
perforated leather and then what are the
choices Oh a lots I mean they're shiny
leather there's what we call protein
vinyl there's a split grain leather all
these different letters away the buttons
click is that something that yeah
everything yeah there's I remember this
actual switch they gave us about 20 of
them and you had to push him and listen
there's a little copper thing that kind
of makes a clicking sound in that that's
part of our job to
from a exterior design standpoint what
do you try to do with the SRT comes
we're trying to kind of make it subtle
and everything on its functional every
every SRT even though it may look like a
spoiler ad on it all this these cars are
not to be limited so they can go up to
174 miles per hour so we tune forero
first and then we added a little
distinction to make them you know so
someone who's a car guy can look at the
car 100 feet away go that's necessary
yeah it's funny how far things have come
I remember when I was in high school the
fastest car service 63 was a turbo
porsche five point 0 seconds this cars
faster than that and it's a business
event yeah it'll do 0-60 4.6 it'll pull
those that card G was I don't that was
it like points 5.7 maybe point yeah this
car a little polar point 99 GS oh and do
175 lb
but it's you know this car with its 5050
weight distribution is really fun and a
lot of steering angle and a lot of
torque so it's easy light up actually is
a best-kept secret the world's best
drift machine you're the first auto
industry executive that I've ever done
that with and I suspect there are a lot
of them they can
did that affect them well what a segue
let's turn off the music and go for a
drive
you